---
last_modified_at: 2017-11-01T10:00:00-00:00
published: true
layout: post
title: Turkey
description: Bosphorous Swim, Mosques and Ruins
image: https://c1.staticflickr.com/9/8283/7870591212_6752f00faa_b.jpg
image-url: https://www.flickr.com/photos/bennbeck/collections/72157631509178776/
thumbSquare: https://c1.staticflickr.com/9/8283/7870591212_6752f00faa_q.jpg
country: Turkey
tags: [ swimming ]
---

It was early 2011 when I first heard about the Hellespont & Dardanelles Swim, a 4.5km sea swim from Europe to Asia.
The location is one of the world's busiest shipping lanes but for two hours on one day each year the shipping lanes are closed
and participants swim from one side to the other. As a keen swimmer, I was instantly hooked on the idea but had never done any
significant open water swimming. Thus began twelve months of training; ploughing up and down Hathersage Swimming Pool and
trekking around the country to take part in various 'practice runs' of open water swimming events of ever increasing distance.

By August 2012 I was on my way to Turkey, confident in my preparations. But it seemed this training might be in vain.
The day before the event the wind started to pick up and the water became increasingly choppy. At the safety briefing that evening
the organisers responsible for all foreign swimmers advised against participating due to the conditions. Their opinion was that the
event should be cancelled, but for the Turkish it was a matter of honour to proceed, the event coinciding with their independence
day celebrations. Added into the mix was the news that many of the safety boats had unprotected propellers - in calm conditions a
swimmer could actively avoid this part of the boat whilst boarding, but in choppy conditions a competitor could be blown towards the
propeller and injured (or worse) on the rotating blades. Furthermore, the choppy conditions only increased our chances of being
caught in the current towards the finish and swept out into the Mediterranean. Given these factors, opting out seemed the sensible option!

Having travelled so far and trained for so long I agonized over whether to take part and accept the risks or withdraw and always
wonder whether I was capable. In the end I decided that this was a personal challenge that I just couldn't walk away from.
I accepted that failure was possible, even likely, but that without trying I would always wonder if I could have made it.

It was in this frame of mind that I entered the water. Almost immediately I felt I had made a bad decision. The waves were huge,
and every time I tried to take a breath my face was slapped with sea water leaving me gasping for air. Around me competitors were
turning back, having only just entered the water. The safety boats themselves were being thrown around in the swell.

Suddenly I realised that swimming underwater for as long as I could meant I avoided the waves. I focused on the feet of the
swimmer in front of me and followed them for as long as I could until we were separated. At this point, I switched to breaststroke,
not the fastest stroke by any means, but rising upwards out of the water meant I could crest over the waves rather than being hit
with their full force, as I was every time I turned my head to breathe with front crawl.

By now I was in the open seas. Looking around I could see no safety boats or other swimmers within sight. My training kicked in
and I sighted for landmarks on the opposite shore which we had been told to follow until the shore itself became more fully visible.
Having made it through the worst of the rough seas I began to enjoy the experience.

Completing the race was a rush in itself, but the success was all the sweeter when I learned that I was the third fastest time for
women in my age group. Since then I have gone on to complete longer swims including a 10km river swim in Devon and swimming the
length of Lake Coniston – but nothing quite matches up to the challenge of swimming from Europe to Asia!
